Driver sha5461as (#20981)
RIOT-OS/RIOT: drivers/digit7seg/doc.txt

/*
 * Copyright (C) 2024 Orange
 *
 * This file is subject to the terms and conditions of the GNU Lesser
 * General Public License v2.1. See the file LICENSE in the top level
 * directory for more details.
 */

/**

@defgroup    drivers_digit7seg Generic 7 segments driver
@ingroup     drivers_display
@brief       Device driver for less than 5 digits of 7 segments without IC

## About

> This driver was developed to works with [5461AS](http://www.topliteusa.com/uploadfile/2014/0825/A-5461AS.pdf)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This driver was developed to work with [5461AS](http://www.topliteusa.com/uploadfile/2014/0825/A-5461AS.pdf)
```

> in a way that all 4 digits (and less) with 7 segments without integrated controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a way that up to 4 digits with 7 segments without integrated controller
```

> can be controlled into [RIOT-OS](https://github.com/RIOT-OS/RIOT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be controlled from RIOT-OS.
```

this will become part of doc.riot-os.org, so no need to link to the RIOT github page I'd say.

### 7 segments

> Each digit contains 7 digit (plus decimal point), if the segment is set high and his

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each digit contains 7 segments (plus decimal point), if the segment is set high and his
```

        e     c
        |     |
         --d--    .dp
```

### 4 digits of 7 segments

To set up a 4 digits of 7 segments display, we need transistors to allow current to pass
only when the corresponding digit pin digX is high.

All the digits share the same value pins. To display different values on each digit, we shift the value
and turn on each digit at a rate that is imperceptible to the human eye.

```
       .----.----.----.----.
       |    |    |    |    |-- a
       |    |    |    |    |-- b
       |    |    |    |    |-- c
       |    |    |    |    |-- d
       |    |    |    |    |-- e
       |    |    |    |    |-- f
       |    |    |    |    |-- g
       |    |    |    |    |-- dp
       '----'----'----'----'
         |    |    |    |
         T-------------------- dig1
         |    |    |    |
         |    T--------------- dig2
         |    |    |    |
         |    |    T---------- dig3
         |    |    |    |
         |    |    |    T----- dig4
         |    |    |    |
         └──--└──--└──--└──--- GND
```

@note T represent a NPN transistor

## Error Handling

Most of driver functions return 0 on success or one of a negative error code defined by

> #digit7seg_error_codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@ref digit7seg_error_codes.
```

I think, and same below.

## Usage

To use the digit7seg driver, the configuration must be set by including `digit7seg_params.h`
or defining a `digit7seg_params_t` struct.

The structure of a configuration is defined in #digit7seg_params_t and consists of the following
parameters:

Parameter                      | Symbol in ```digit7seg_params.h``` | Default
:------------------------------|:-----------------------------------|:------------------
Data pin for a segment         | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_A_PIN              | GPIO_PIN(1, 11)
Data pin for b segment         | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_B_PIN              | GPIO_PIN(1, 12)
Data pin for c segment         | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_C_PIN              | GPIO_PIN(1, 15)
Data pin for d segment         | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_D_PIN              | GPIO_PIN(1, 13)
Data pin for e segment         | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_E_PIN              | GPIO_PIN(1, 14)
Data pin for f segment         | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_F_PIN              | GPIO_PIN(0, 23)
Data pin for g segment         | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_G_PIN              | GPIO_PIN(0, 21)
Data pin for dp segment        | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_DP_PIN             | GPIO_PIN(0, 27)

> Pin to on digit 1              | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_DIG1_PIN           | GPIO_PIN(1, 2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pin to digit 1              | DIGIT7SEG_PARAM_DIG1_PIN           | GPIO_PIN(1, 2)
```

same below

be stocked into digit7seg_params.

@note At least all the data_* pin must be defined, depending of the number of digits set, dig4, dig3, dig2 can be set at GPIO_UNDEF.

Example:
```
#define DIGIT7SEG_PARAMS              { .data_a = GPIO(1, 14),   \
                                        .data_b = GPIO(1, 17),   \
                                        .data_c = GPIO(1, 15),   \
                                        .data_d = GPIO(1, 13),   \
                                        .data_e = GPIO(1, 12),   \
                                        .data_f = GPIO(0, 23),   \
                                        .data_g = GPIO(0, 21),   \
                                        .data_dp = GPIO(1, 11), \
                                        .dig1 = GPIO(0, 13),  \
                                        .dig2 = GPIO(1, 8),  \
                                        .dig3 = GPIO_UNDEF,  \
                                        .dig4 = GPIO_UNDEF,  \
                                        .timer = TIMER_DEV(2),    \
                                        .digits = 2 }
...
#include "digit7seg.h"
#include "digit7seg_param.h"
```

> The ::digit7seg_init function initializes a #digit7seg_t and checks if every parameter is correctly set.

Reviewer: or maybe you know more than me and this is actually some special doxygen-markdown syntax?

Author: It's a special dioxygen ref

Example:
```
digit7seg_t dev;

if (digit7seg_init(&dev, &digit7seg_params[0]) != DIGIT7SEG_OK) {
    ... /* error handling */
}
```

Once the device is initialized and configured :

> - ::digit7seg_set_all_value function can be used to set the value for all the digits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ::digit7seg_set_all_value function can be used to set the same value to all digits.
```

- ::digit7seg_poweron function starts a periodic timer that cycles through each digit to give the impression that they are all lit simultaneously.

> - ::digit7seg_poweroff function stops this timer.

Reviewer: You should also mention the function to set the value to a single digit.
